Main Window:

The Main Window is used to display current data received from the Davis console.  The data is written in visual displays such as thermometers or dials and gauges.  The current values of data is displayed under the label in bold text.  The visual displays show high and low values as well as current values.  The daily high/low values are default when the application is launched.  Monthly and yearly high/low values can be shown.  The high/low values that are being displayed are changed using the High/Low main menu options.  The only gauge showing hourly high/low values is the wind direction.  When hourly is selected, the other gauges display the daily high/low values.

The Alert button is colored if a NOAA warning is issued for the region.  The color is based on the severity of the alert.  Press the Alert button to display the NOAA warning.

The forecasted weather prediction is displayed visually below the Alert button. The detailed forecast is displayed textually to the right of the Alert button.  These forecasts are generated by the Davis console.  

The Alarm button is colored red whenever the Davis console is alarming.  Press the Alarm button to bring up the alarm dialog box.  This shows which alarms are currently active.  

There is a telltale button to the right of the Alarm button.  This button shows which command is currently being retrieved from the Davis console.  There can only be one outstanding command to the console at a time.  Commands are queued up and run on a first come first served basis.  The LOOP command is run every few seconds and is a good indication of the health and status of the system.  The DMPAFT command is run every 5 minutes and is used to gather data to save to the data files.  This command can be lengthy if data has not been retrieved for some time.  The HILOWS command is run once and hour or on demand whenever the high/low value is changed.  The other commands are performed on an on demand basis.

The graphic at the bottom of the screen depicts the sun rise and set times based on civil dawn and dusk in yellow.  Below the sun time is the moon time which depicts when the moon is visible and displayed in grey.  This is a quick visual indicator of when the moon will be visible in the sky.

The celestial times show the various dawn and dusk times.  Sunrise/sunset are self explanatory.  Civil dawn/dusk in general is the point at which it becomes too dark to read a newspaper.  Nautical dawn/dusk in general is when you can no longer distinguish the horizon at sea.  Astronomical dawn/dusk is when it is as dark as it is going to get.  More specifically civil is when the sun is 6 degrees below the horizon, nautical occurs at 12 degrees and astronomical occurs at 18 degrees.

The rain data is taken directly from the Davis console except for the last rain date which is retrieved from the data files.  

The wind direction shows the current wind direction.  Around the edge is colored based on the predominant wind direction over the last period of time defined by the high/low time period; either year, month, day or hour.  

